

118 HR 4007 IH: Halting the Epidemic of Addiction and Loss Act of 2023
U.S. House of Representatives
2023-06-12
text/xml
EN
Pursuant to Title 17 Section 105 of the United States Code, this file is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain.



I118th CONGRESS1st SessionH. R. 4007IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESJune 12, 2023Mr. Armstrong (for himself and Mr. Tonko) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and CommerceA BILLTo ensure references to opioid overdose reversal agents in grant programs of the Department of Health and Human Services are not limited to naloxone. 
1.Short titleThis Act may be cited as the Halting the Epidemic of Addiction and Loss Act of 2023 or the HEAL Act of 2023. 2.References to opioid overdose reversal agents in HHS grant programs (a)In generalThe Secretary of Health and Human Services shall ensure that, whenever the Department of Health and Human Services issues a regulation, guidance, or other document for any grant program addressing opioid misuse and use disorders, any reference to an opioid overdose reversal agent (such as a reference to naloxone) is inclusive of any opioid overdose reversal agent that has been approved or otherwise authorized for use by the Food and Drug Administration. 
(b)Existing references (1)UpdateNot later than the end of calendar year 2023, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall update all references described in paragraph (2) to be inclusive of any opioid overdose reversal agent that has been approved or otherwise authorized for use by the Food and Drug Administration. 
(2)ReferencesA reference described in this paragraph is any reference to an opioid overdose reversal agent (such as naloxone) in any regulation, guidance, or other document of the Department of Health and Human Services that— (A)was issued before the date of enactment of this Act; and 
(B)is for— (i)the grant program for State and Tribal response to opioid use disorders under section 1003 of the 21st Century Cures Act (42 U.S.C. 290ee–3 note; commonly referred to as State Opioid Response Grants and Tribal Opioid Response Grants); or 
(ii)the grant program for priority substance use disorder prevention needs of regional and national significance under section 516 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb–22).   